Passkeys docs (#811)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/custom-flows/passkeys.mdx

</Callout>

Clerk supports passwordless authentication via passkeys, enabling users to sign in without having to remember a password. Instead, users select a passkey associated with their device, which they can use to authenticate themselves.

This guide will teach you how to use Clerk's API to build custom flows for creating, signing users in with, and managing passkeys.

## Create user passkeys

To create a passkey for a user, you must call [`User.createPasskey()`](/docs/references/javascript/user/user#create-passkey) as shown in the following example:

<CodeBlockTabs options={["Next.js App Router"]}>
```tsx filename="app/components/CustomCreatePasskeysButton.tsx"
"use client";

import { useUser } from "@clerk/nextjs";

export function CreatePasskeyButton() {
  const { user } = useUser();

>   const createClerkPasskey = async () => {
> await user?.createPasskey();
>   .then((res) => console.log(res))
>   .catch((error) => console.log("An error occurred:", error));
>   };

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  const createClerkPasskey = async () => {
await user?.createPasskey();
  .then((res) => console.log(res))
  .catch((error) => console.log("An error occurred:", error));
  };
```
```suggestion
  const createClerkPasskey = async () => {
    await user?.createPasskey()
    .then((res) => console.log(res))
    .catch((error) => console.log("An error occurred:", error));
  };
```

Reviewer: @S3Prototype i think there's just an extraneous semicolon after `createPasskey()`

---
title: Build a custom authentication flow using passkeys
description: Learn how to allow your users authenticate with passkeys with Clerk.
---

# Build a custom authentication flow using passkeys

<Callout type="warning">

> This guide is for users who want to build a custom user interface using the Clerk API. To authenticate users with passkeys using a prebuilt UI, you should use Clerk's [`<SignIn />`](/docs/components/authentication/sign-in) component. See [the sign-in and sign-out options docs](/docs/authentication/configuration/sign-up-sign-in-options) to learn more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide is for users who want to build a *custom* user interface using the Clerk API. To authenticate users with passkeys using a *prebuilt* UI, you should use Clerk's [`<SignIn />`](/docs/components/authentication/sign-in) and [`<UserProfile />`](/docs/components/user/user-profile) components. See [the sign-in and sign-out options docs](/docs/authentication/configuration/sign-up-sign-in-options#passkeys) to learn more.
```

</Callout>

Clerk supports passwordless authentication via passkeys, enabling users to sign in without having to remember a password. Instead, users select a passkey associated with their device, which they can use to authenticate themselves.

> This guide will teach you how to build custom flows for creating, signing users in with, and managing passkeys.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide will teach you how to use Clerk's API to build custom flows for creating, signing users in with, and managing passkeys.
```

## Create user passkeys

> To create a passkey for a user, you must call the [`createPasskey()`](/docs/references/javascript/user/user#create-passkey) method on the [`User`](/docs/references/javascript/user/user) object as shown in the following example:

Reviewer 2: what do you think about shortening this - the user will still be taken to the `User` docs, and will still get an example of how to access and use `User`.

```suggestion
To create a passkey for a user, you must call [`User.createPasskey()`](/docs/references/javascript/user/user#create-passkey) as shown in the following example:
```

<CodeBlockTabs options={["Next.js App Router"]}>
```tsx filename="app/components/CustomCreatePasskeysButton.tsx"
"use client";

import { useUser } from "@clerk/nextjs";

export function CreatePasskeyButton() {
  const { user } = useUser();

  const createClerkPasskey = async () => {
    try {

>       const response = await user?.__experimental_createPasskey();

Reviewer 2: just curious, is this property meant to have `__experiemental_` ?

Author: @alexisintech Yeah, we'll remove the `__experimental` when it's time to take the product out of beta. For now this is required

>     try {
>       const response = await user?.__experimental_createPasskey();
>       console.log(response);
>     } catch (error) {
>       console.log(error);
>     }

Reviewer 2: less code 🤷‍♀️  but what do you think?
note formatting might be off.

```suggestion
await user?.__experimental_createPasskey();
  .then((res) => console.log(res))
  .catch((error) => console.log("An error occurred:", error.errors));
```

  };

  return (
    <button onClick={createClerkPasskey}>
      Create a passkey now
    </button>
  );
}
```
</CodeBlockTabs>

## Sign a user in with a passkey

> To sign a user into your Clerk app with a passkey, you must call the [`authenticateWithPasskey()`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/authenticate-with#authenticate-with-passkey) method of the [`SignIn`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/sign-in) object. This method allows users to choose from their discoverable passkeys, such as hardware keys or passkeys in password managers.

Reviewer 2: same as suggestion above

```suggestion
To sign a user into your Clerk app with a passkey, you must call [`SignIn.authenticateWithPasskey()`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/authenticate-with#authenticate-with-passkey). This method allows users to choose from their discoverable passkeys, such as hardware keys or passkeys in password managers.
```

<CodeBlockTabs options={["Next.js App router"]}>
```tsx filename="components/SignInWithPasskeyButton.tsx"
"use client";

import { useSignIn } from "@clerk/nextjs";

export function SignInWithPasskeyButton() {
  const { signIn } = useSignIn();

  const signInWithPasskey = async () => {

>     try {
>       // 'discoverable' lets the user choose a passkey without autofilling
>       // any of the options
>       const response = await signIn?.__experimental_authenticateWithPasskey({ flow: 'discoverable' });
>       console.log(response);
>     } catch (error) {
>       console.log(error);
>     }
>   };

Reviewer 2: same suggestion as above - note formatting might be off.

```suggestion
      // 'discoverable' lets the user choose a passkey without autofilling
      // any of the options
      await signIn?.__experimental_authenticateWithPasskey({ flow: 'discoverable' });
        .then((res) => console.log(res))
        .catch((error) => console.log("An error occurred:", error.errors));
  };
```

  return (
    <button onClick={signInWithPasskey}>
      Sign in with a passkey
    </button>
  );
}
```
</CodeBlockTabs>

## Rename user passkeys

Clerk generates a name based on the device associated with the passkey when it's created. Sometimes users may want to rename a passkey to make it easier to identify.

To rename a user's passkey in your Clerk app, you must call the [`update()`](/docs/references/javascript/types/passkey-resource#update) method of the passkey object as shown in the following example: 

<CodeBlockTabs options={["Next.js App router"]}>

```tsx filename="components/RenamePasskeyUI.tsx"
"use client";

import { useUser } from "@clerk/nextjs";
import { useRef, useState } from "react";

export function RenamePasskeyUI() {
  const { user } = useUser();
  const passkeyToUpdateId = useRef<HTMLInputElement>(null);
  const newPasskeyName = useRef<HTMLInputElement>(null);
  const { __experimental_passkeys } = user;
  const [success, setSuccess] = useState(false);

  const renamePasskey = async () => {

>     try {
>       const passkeyToUpdate = __experimental_passkeys?.find(
>         (pk: PasskeyResource) => pk.id === passkeyToUpdateId.current?.value
>       );
>       const response = await passkeyToUpdate?.update({
>         name: newPasskeyName.current?.value,
>       });
>       console.log(response);
>       setSuccess(true);
>     } catch (error) {
>       console.log(error);
>       setSuccess(false);
>     }

Reviewer 2: same suggestion as above - note formatting might be off.

```suggestion
    const passkeyToUpdate = __experimental_passkeys?.find(
        (pk: PasskeyResource) => pk.id === passkeyToUpdateId.current?.value
      );
     await passkeyToUpdate?.update({
        name: newPasskeyName.current?.value,
     });
      .then((res) => {
        console.log(res);
        setSuccess(true);
      })
      .catch((error) => {
        console.log("An error occurred:", error.errors);
        setSuccess(false);
      });
```

          return (
            <li key={pk.id}>
              Name: {pk.name} | ID: {pk.id}
            </li>
          );
        })}
      </ul>
      <input 
        ref={passkeyToUpdateId}
        type="text"
        placeholder="ID of passkey to update"
      />
      <input type="text" placeholder="New name" ref={newPasskeyName} />
      <button onClick={renamePasskey}>Rename your passkey</button>
      <p>Passkey updated: {success ? "Yes" : "No"}</p>
    </>
  );
}
```
</CodeBlockTabs>

## Delete user passkeys

To delete a user's passkey from your Clerk app, you must call the [`delete()`](/docs/references/javascript/types/passkey-resource#delete) method of the passkey object as shown in the following example: 

<CodeBlockTabs options={["Next.js App router"]}>
```tsx filename="components/DeletePasskeyUI.tsx"
"use client";

import { useUser } from "@clerk/nextjs";
import { useRef, useState } from "react";

export function DeletePasskeyUI() {
  const { user } = useUser();
  const passkeyToDeleteId = useRef<HTMLInputElement>(null);
  const { __experimental_passkeys } = user;
  const [success, setSuccess] = useState(false);

  const deletePasskey = async () => {

>     try {
>       const passkeyToDelete = __experimental_passkeys?.find(
>         (pk: any) => pk.id === passkeyToDeleteId.current?.value
>       );
>       const response = await passkeyToDelete?.delete();
>       console.log(response);
>       setSuccess(true);
>     } catch (error) {
>       console.log(error);
>       setSuccess(false);
>     }

Reviewer 2: same suggestion as above - note formatting might be off.

```suggestion
    const passkeyToDelete = __experimental_passkeys?.find(
        (pk: any) => pk.id === passkeyToDeleteId.current?.value
    );
    await passkeyToDelete?.delete();
      .then((res) => {
        console.log(response);
        setSuccess(true);
      });
      .catch ((error) => {
        console.log(error.errors);
        setSuccess(false);
      });
```

---

> title: Passkeys

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Build a custom authentication flow using passkeys
```

description: Learn how to allow your users authenticate with passkeys with Clerk.
---

> # Passkeys

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Build a custom authentication flow using passkeys
```

> <Callout type="Info">
>   Passkey user sign-in is available on Pro plans. [Upgrade](/pricing) to enable this feature.
> </Callout>
> 
> A passkey is a type of sign-in credential that requires one user action, but uses two authentication factors:
>   1. A pin number or biometric data
>   1. A physical device
> 
> Because of this, passkeys are generally more secure than passwords, and you should allow users to sign into your Clerk app with them. You can do so with the prebuilt [`<SignIn>`](/docs/components/authentication/sign-in) component, or with Clerk's JS SDK.
> 
> <Callout type="Info">
>   Users can't create passkeys with the `<SignUp>` component.
> </Callout>

Reviewer 2: Fix introductory paragraph to look similar to https://docs-preview-702.clerkpreview.com/docs/custom-flows/email-sms-otp#create-the-otp-sign-up-flow

```suggestion
```

## Enable passkeys in your dashboard

To use passkeys, you must first enable the feature in your Clerk Dashboard:

1. Visit the Dashboard and select your project.
1. Expand **User & Authentication**, then select [**Email, Phone, Username**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/email-phone-username).
1. Navigate to **Authentication strategies**, and toggle **Passkeys**.

> ## Manage user passkeys
> 
> If you're using the prebuilt [`<UserProfile>`](/docs/components/user/user-profile) component, your users can create and manage their passkeys in the **Security** section of their [account portal](/docs/account-portal/overview#account-portal-overview).
> 
> The following instructions will teach you how to enable this functionality with a custom UI.

Reviewer 2: Move to ### Passkeys on this page /docs/authentication/configuration/sign-up-sign-in-options

```suggestion
```
